# Introduction
Welcome to the second tutorial on how to use Simvue, which uses the techniques covered in the first tutorial, as well as some more advanced functionality. This tutorial focusses on an example simulation using MOOSE (Multiphysics Object-Oriented Simulation Environment), which is an open-source, parallel finite element framework for solving various Physics problems. In this tutorial we will define a simple problem, briefly discuss how to set up the MOOSE input file to solve this problem, and use the Simvue Multiparser to track the progress of the simulation. If you have not done so yet, we recommend that you [^^work through the first tutorial before attempting this one^^](/tutorial/introduction).

There are two options for following along with this tutorial. The recommended option is to use the provided Docker container, which has MOOSE, Paraview, Simvue and Multiparser pre installed. You could alternatively install each component individually, and brief instructions for this are also listed below.

## Option 1: Setup using Docker container
### Install Docker
You will need to install the Docker CLI tool to be able to use the Docker container for this tutorial. (Full instructions for installing Docker can be found here)[https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/]. If you are running Ubuntu (either on a full Linux system or via WSL on Windows), you should be able to do:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install docker.io
```
To check that this worked, run `docker` - you should see a list of help for the commands.
### Pull Docker image
Next we need to obtain the tutorial materials from Docker Hub:
```
docker pull wk9874/simvue-moose
```
This may take some time to download. Once complete, if you run `docker images`, you should see an image with the name `wk9874/simvue-moose` listed.

## Run Docker container
Firstly, add Docker as a valid user of the X windows server, so that we can view results using Paraview:
```
xhost +local:docker
```
Then you can run the container:
```
docker run -e DISPLAY=${DISPLAY} -e QT_X11_NO_MITSHM=1 -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix -it wk9874/simvue-moose:latest
```
If this is running correctly, you should see your command prompt change to something like:
```
dev:~/simue-moose$
```
## Option 2: Custom Setup
### Create a virtual environment

Run the following commands to create and activate a new virtual environment:
```
python3 -m venv venv
source ./venv/bin/activate
```

### Install Simvue and Multiparser

Install the Python client:
```
pip install simvue
pip install multiparser
```

### Configuring Simvue

The next step is to specify the URL of the Simvue server and provide an access token used to authenticate to the server.

Login to the web UI, go to the **Runs** page and click **Create new run**. Create a file called `simvue.ini` containing
the contents as provided.
The file should look something like:
```
[server]
url = https://app.simvue.io
token = eyJ0eXAi...
```

### Install MOOSE
Next you will need to setup MOOSE on your computer. [^^See the installation instructions here^^](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/getting_started/installation/index.html), using the link corresponding to your operating system. 

You will also need to create your MOOSE application - [^^see the instructions for creating a MOOSE application here^^](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/getting_started/new_users.html). You will not need to enable any extra Physics modules for this tutorial, so can leave the Makefile with the default values.

### Install Paraview
If you would like to see the solution generated by the MOOSE script, you will also want CAD software to view the output. Paraview is an open source program which can be used, [^^which can be downloaded here^^](https://www.paraview.org/download/). While this is not strictly necessary to follow along with the tutorial, it may give you a better picture of what the MOOSE simulation is doing.